------------------------------------------------------------ 

     ERIC NO: ED367593
AVAILABILITY: EDRS Price - MF01/PC01 Plus Postage.
      AUTHOR: Gerber, Alex
       TITLE: Synergy, Holistic Education and R. Buckminster Fuller: 
              Education for a World in Transformation.
        YEAR: 1991
    PUB TYPE: Position paper
    LANGUAGE: English
    ABSTRACT: This pamphlet relates this quotation by R. Buckminster Fuller 
              to the educational process: "To be optimally effective, 
              undertake at outset the most comprehensive task in the most 
              comprehensive and incisively detailed manner." The principle 
              of synergy can be used to determine when something is 
              "optimally effective." One example of how teachers can 
              deliberately use the principle of synergy is by integrating 
              the curriculum so that multiple skills develop simultaneously. 
              To undertake a "comprehensive task," education should be 
              approached in the context of holistic and global realities 
              (thinking and acting from whole to parts). A "comprehensive 
              and incisively detailed manner" for accomplishing this would 
              begin by actively nurturing a holistic attitude orientation in 
              educators, students, and policymakers. An interdenominational, 
              unifying ethic that could inspire people worldwide would be 
              valuing the whole. Holistic education is a key to unlocking 
              the potential for self-empowerment. The call to educators and 
              others is for a rapid evolution of consciousness, approaching 
              ever deeper into "comprehensivity," which Fuller considered to 
              be a deeper level of realization from which one can better 
              perceive and shape reality. (Contains 27 reference notes.) 
              (JDD)
       NOTES: 16p.
  MAJOR DESC: Educational Change; Educational Philosophy; Holistic Approach; 
              Integrated Curriculum; Role of Education
  MINOR DESC: Educational Objectives; Elementary Secondary Education; Higher 
              Education; Integrated Activities; Self Actualization
 IDENTIFIERS: Fuller (Buckminster); Synergy
 
