------------------------------------------------------------ 

     ERIC NO: ED169671
AVAILABILITY: Document Not Available from EDRS.
      AUTHOR: Rubin, Louis, Ed.
       TITLE: Educational Reform for a Changing Society: Anticipating 
              Tomorrow's Schools.
        YEAR: 1978
    PUB TYPE: Book; Collection; Position paper
    LANGUAGE: English
    ABSTRACT: The essays in this book emphasize trends now shaping society 
              that the authors believe will have a profound effect on 
              schools in the decades to come. Topics covered include 
              declining enrollments and increasing educational costs, the 
              changing role of vocational education, government financing 
              for educational quality, the role of busing, politicking 
              skills for school administrators, and the growing importance 
              of the community-based school. Shirley Chisholm and Richard S. 
              Schweiker deal with developing political trends concerning 
              education from their point of view as members of key education 
              committees in the United States Congress. Topics that will 
              affect future schools and educators are discussed by social 
              and educational leaders Robert G. Scanlon, Ralph W. Tyler, 
              Urie Bronfenbrenner, Elise Boulding, and Louis Rubin. R. 
              Buckminster Fuller and Jonas Salk look at education in the 
              congested world of the future from the point of view of the 
              scientific community. Following each essay, Louis Rubin 
              highlights its inherent implications for education and 
              extracts significant research and development issues. 
              (Author/JM)
       NOTES: 215p.  Allyn and Bacon, Longwood Division, 470 Atlantic 
              Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02210 ($13.95)
  MAJOR DESC: Educational Change; Futures (of Society); Social Change; Trend 
              Analysis
  MINOR DESC: Administration; Books; Bus Transportation; Community Schools; 
              Costs; Declining Enrollment; Disadvantaged; Educational 
              Administration; Educational History; Educational Philosophy; 
              Equal Education; Essays; Ethical Instruction; Family 
              Environment; Family Role; Human Development; Instructional 
              Program Divisions; Leadership; Prediction; Problem Solving; 
              Research Problems; Vocational Education
 INSTITUTION: Research for Better Schools, Inc., Philadelphia, Pa.
 
